docs/labs/JavavsCPP.md, before:

# Differences in Java versus C++ cheatsheet

- [Overall Comparison](#overall-comparison)
- [Bools \& Arrays](#bools--arrays)
- [Java Strings](#java-strings)
- [Java has two meta-types - primitives and objects](#java-has-two-meta-types---primitives-and-objects)
- [In Java, there is no pointer notation](#in-java-there-is-no-pointer-notation)
- [All Objects you create in Java will be created on the Heap](#all-objects-you-create-in-java-will-be-created-on-the-heap)
- [Java will take care of deleting objects for you](#java-will-take-care-of-deleting-objects-for-you)
- [Output/Input stuff has changed](#outputinput-stuff-has-changed)
- [Const/Final variables](#constfinal-variables)
- [Java has programmed many things for you](#java-has-programmed-many-things-for-you)
- [There is much to learn still](#there-is-much-to-learn-still)

## Overall Comparison

If I had to compare C++ and Java,
I would say that they fit these pictures pretty well

| C++                                                                                                             | Java                                                                                                  |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| ![http://www.pxleyes.com/images/users/S/Sarah06/3485/fullsize/4e5f610b59f3a.jpg](diffjavacpp/media/image1.jpeg) | ![http://www.cityofws.org/portals/0/images/police/storytime2\_233.jpg](diffjavacpp/media/image2.jpeg) |
Source: left - *pxleyes.com*, right - *[cityofws](http://www.cityofws.org)*

C++ just lets you do whatever you want,
which is exciting
but can mess you up.
Java on the other hand is much more protective.
You still get to be creative and expressive,
but it makes sure to take away any obvious ways to hurt yourself
(you just have to be more creative).

The languages are very similar syntax-wise!
If you have any doubts
you should just go about how you would do things in C++ for most of the basic elements.
I'm going to highlight a couple of differences.

## Bools & Arrays

Want a C++ ```bool``` variable? Declare it as a ```boolean``` instead
(ie ```boolean isEasy = true;```).

To declare an array in Java it must be written in this way.
You can declare the type and size however you like.

```java
int[] arr = new int[5];
```

To get the number of elements in the array,
just say ```arr.length```

## Java Strings

Java strings do work differently than C++.
Remember, C++ strings internally are arrays of characters,
and you could access a C++ string like an array.
In Java that is not possible.

Instead, if you want to get an underlying character,
you can use ```charAt```.

```java
String s = "Hello";
char ch = s.charAt(1); //ch now has 'e'
```

To find something in a string you can use the method **```indexOf```**,
which takes in either a string or a character
and returns the integer position of where it is located.
If it's not found,
```indexOf``` returns ```-1```.

```java
int pos = s.indexOf("lo") //pos would return 3, the start of lo
```

To extract part of a string like C++ java has a ```substring``` function.
Unlike C++,
Java's substring works slightly differently:

```java
String chopped = s.substring(1, 3) //"el"
```

Here,
the numbers for substring stand for the **range of characters**,
where you include the first one but not the 3<sup>rd</sup>.
In this case,
you can think of substring as saying
include all the characters that start at position one
and go up to (but not including) position 3.
If you omit the second number,
Java will give you the entire string from the starting character given up until the end.

## Java has two meta-types - primitives and objects

Primitives are the basic types you know and love from C++,
things like
```int```,
```char```,
```double```,
and ```boolean```.
You can immediately identify them based on the case.
Primitives are all in lower case while other types in Java,
like ```String```,
are in uppercase.
Anything that is in uppercase is just like a class/object from C++,
it was written in a class file,
which are java files.
There are no separate .h and .cpp files in Java,
the declaration and definition of a class is contained in the same file.
Like in 53,
the code that is in these java files I will refer to as a
**<span class="smallcaps">class</span>** (the blueprints),
while an actual instantiation
(aka instance aka something that is created to follow the rules of that class)
will be called an
**<span class="smallcaps">object</span>**.
You can have many objects that follow the same class blueprints.

## In Java, there is no pointer notation

Remember this?

```cpp
int x = 5;
int *ptr = &x;
```

Yeah,
well that's all gone,
you won't have any code where the * means something other than multiplication.
There's also no way to talk about the address of another variable.
However,
you'll often hear that java has no pointers.
That's a misnomer.
Any object that you create will always be holding a pointer to that object.
When I create a Fraction object based on the Fraction.java class,
I write something like this:

```java
Fraction f1;
```

Java will create a variable named ```f1```,
but that variable holds a pointer to ```f1```.
Saying immediately something like

```java
f1.setDenominator(2);
```

Will trigger an error.
You have to think of this as if just like in C++,
you created a variable that holds a pointer only,
but you didn't create space for the Fraction object itself.
By calling ```new```.

### Functions, passing by reference and passing by value

The side effect of having no pointer locations is that you cannot pass parameters into a function by
reference in Java.
C++ supports passing parameters both by value and reference, so you can have multiple outputs in a function.

Java does not support this, so if you wanted to return multiple values, an array is often used.

## All Objects you create in Java will be created on the Heap

If you want to create an object,
you will have to create it using the new operator.
That will,
like in C++,
create the object that you want on the heap
where you can then store information in it and call its values.
So the easiest thing would be to just get in the habit of always initializing all of your variables.

```java
Fraction f1 = new Fraction(1, 1); //Remember to call new!
f1.setDenominator(2); //now this will make the fraction ½
```

## Java will take care of deleting objects for you

Since it's on the heap,
you might start feeling weird about having to free your memory
or calling delete on objects you don't need anymore.
Well,
java does that for you now.
And yes to the "l33t h4x0rs" this may be more inefficient and causes java to be slower,
but the seconds you lose in running the program
will outweigh the hours you spend trying to figure out freed memory exceptions.

## Output/Input stuff has changed

I'm not gonna lie,
```cout```,
```cin``` was pretty easy to use.
Java has recognized though that there are some potential dangers in getting input
that isn't in the right type for example,
so they have made getting input a little bit more difficult.
Printing out to a console has been replaced by doing something like this.

```cpp
cout << "Hello, my " << age << "year-old friend!" << endl; //C++
cout << "Hello, my " << age << "year-old friend!\n"; //C++
```

```java
System.out.println("Hello, my " + age + "year-old friend!"); //Java
System.out.print("Hello, my " + age + "year-old friend!\n"); //Java
```

Notice that Java doesn't have the ```endl``` at the end of the statement.
It has been replaced with the ```println``` statement,
if you don't want to go to the next line,
call ```print``` instead of ```println```.
Both ```print``` and ```println``` can also have ```\n``` to make a new line
which C++ also supports when printing.

```\t``` is also something that is in both C++ and Java that hasn't changed
and when printing you can use it to have a horizontal tab
which is the equivalent of eight spaces in what you are printing.
You can also have multiple ```\n``` and ```\t``` in what you are printing in both C++ and Java
by doing something like this.

```cpp
cout << "Hello,\nmy " << age << "year-old\nfriend!\n"; //C++
cout << "Hello,\tmy\t" << age << "\tyear-old\tfriend!"; //C++
```

```java
System.out.print("Hello,\nmy " + age + "year-old\nfriend!\n"); //Java
System.out.print("Hello,\tmy\t" + age + "\tyear-old\tfriend!");//Java
```

## Const/Final variables

A **constant** is a variable that cannot change its value during the program execution.
Java and C++ have different keywords that are used when referring to a constant variable.
Java uses ```final``` while C++ uses ```const```.
Note though that the two keywords do not share all of the same meanings.
To learn more about the difference,
[please see here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/4971286/javas-final-vs-cs-const#:~:text=Java%20final%20is%20equivalent%20to,i.e.&text=Aside%20from%20having%20certain%20and,to%20be%20initialized%20on%20declaration!).

## Java has programmed many things for you

In addition to things like ArrayLists,
which is an infinitely expandable array that will shift elements around for you,
Java has implemented many useful classes that you can leverage immediately,
without having to download any libraries.
All you will need to do is import the library or collection of classes that you will need,
similar to the ```#include``` in C++.
Except here there are many more libraries and useful classes at your disposal.
Ever wanted to have a class that stores a Date correctly? Done.
Want to make an HTTP request? Done.
Want to sort an array? Done.
To see,
just go to this link.

<https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/index.html>

Those are all java files that have been implemented,
are stable and get leveraged by folks who work in Java so that they don't reinvent the wheel.

## There is much to learn still

I can't tell you all the nooks and crannies or differences.
I just wanted to highlight some major ones.
You will undoubtedly have to learn a new language and IDE to work along that language
when you go off to the real world,
and you won't have much help,
so take advantage of the jump start I gave you
and start exploring and learning a new language without having complete direction from me.
One good place to start is just to google "Java for C++ programmers",
and see if anything interesting comes up.
I'll leave you with one last thing to worry about here.

Now with your newfound knowledge of Java,
what will this print out?

```java
Fraction f1 = new Fraction(5, 2);
Fraction f2 = new Fraction(2, 5);
Fraction f3;

System.out.println("f1:" + f1 + ", f2:" + f2 + ", f3:" + f3);

f3 = f1 = f2;
f1.setDenominator(10);

System.out.println("f1:" + f1 + ", f2:" + f2 + ", f3:" + f3);
```

Commit message:

Update JavavsCPP.md: Java pointers info expanded

docs/labs/JavavsCPP.md, after:

# Differences in Java versus C++ cheatsheet

- [Overall Comparison](#overall-comparison)
- [Bools \& Arrays](#bools--arrays)
- [Java Strings](#java-strings)
- [Java has two meta-types - primitives and objects](#java-has-two-meta-types---primitives-and-objects)
- [In Java, there is no pointer notation](#in-java-there-is-no-pointer-notation)
- [All Objects you create in Java will be created on the Heap](#all-objects-you-create-in-java-will-be-created-on-the-heap)
- [Java will take care of deleting objects for you](#java-will-take-care-of-deleting-objects-for-you)
- [Output/Input stuff has changed](#outputinput-stuff-has-changed)
- [Const/Final variables](#constfinal-variables)
- [Java has programmed many things for you](#java-has-programmed-many-things-for-you)
- [There is much to learn still](#there-is-much-to-learn-still)

## Overall Comparison

If I had to compare C++ and Java,
I would say that they fit these pictures pretty well

| C++                                                                                                             | Java                                                                                                  |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| ![http://www.pxleyes.com/images/users/S/Sarah06/3485/fullsize/4e5f610b59f3a.jpg](diffjavacpp/media/image1.jpeg) | ![http://www.cityofws.org/portals/0/images/police/storytime2\_233.jpg](diffjavacpp/media/image2.jpeg) |
Source: left - *pxleyes.com*, right - *[cityofws](http://www.cityofws.org)*

C++ just lets you do whatever you want,
which is exciting
but can mess you up.
Java on the other hand is much more protective.
You still get to be creative and expressive,
but it makes sure to take away any obvious ways to hurt yourself
(you just have to be more creative).

The languages are very similar syntax-wise!
If you have any doubts
you should just go about how you would do things in C++ for most of the basic elements.
I'm going to highlight a couple of differences.

## Bools & Arrays

Want a C++ ```bool``` variable? Declare it as a ```boolean``` instead
(ie ```boolean isEasy = true;```).

To declare an array in Java it must be written in this way.
You can declare the type and size however you like.

```java
int[] arr = new int[5];
```

To get the number of elements in the array,
just say ```arr.length```

## Java Strings

Java strings do work differently than C++.
Remember, C++ strings internally are arrays of characters,
and you could access a C++ string like an array.
In Java that is not possible.

Instead, if you want to get an underlying character,
you can use ```charAt```.

```java
String s = "Hello";
char ch = s.charAt(1); //ch now has 'e'
```

To find something in a string you can use the method **```indexOf```**,
which takes in either a string or a character
and returns the integer position of where it is located.
If it's not found,
```indexOf``` returns ```-1```.

```java
int pos = s.indexOf("lo") //pos would return 3, the start of lo
```

To extract part of a string like C++ java has a ```substring``` function.
Unlike C++,
Java's substring works slightly differently:

```java
String chopped = s.substring(1, 3) //"el"
```

Here,
the numbers for substring stand for the **range of characters**,
where you include the first one but not the 3<sup>rd</sup>.
In this case,
you can think of substring as saying
include all the characters that start at position one
and go up to (but not including) position 3.
If you omit the second number,
Java will give you the entire string from the starting character given up until the end.

## Java has two meta-types - primitives and objects

Primitives are the basic types you know and love from C++,
things like
```int```,
```char```,
```double```,
and ```boolean```.
You can immediately identify them based on the case.
Primitives are all in lower case while other types in Java,
like ```String```,
are in uppercase.
Anything that is in uppercase is just like a class/object from C++,
it was written in a class file,
which are java files.
There are no separate .h and .cpp files in Java,
the declaration and definition of a class is contained in the same file.
Like in 53,
the code that is in these java files I will refer to as a
**<span class="smallcaps">class</span>** (the blueprints),
while an actual instantiation
(aka instance aka something that is created to follow the rules of that class)
will be called an
**<span class="smallcaps">object</span>**.
You can have many objects that follow the same class blueprints.

## In Java, there is no pointer notation. Or is there?

Remember this?

```cpp
int x = 5;
int *ptr = &x;
```

Yeah,
well that's all gone,
you won't have any code where the * means something other than multiplication.
There's also no way to talk about the address of another variable.
However,
you'll often hear that java has no pointers.
That's a misnomer.
Any object that you create will always be holding a pointer to that object.
When I create a Fraction object based on the Fraction.java class,
I write something like this:

```java
Fraction f1;
```

Java will create a variable named ```f1```,
but that variable holds a pointer to ```f1```.
Saying immediately something like

```java
f1.setDenominator(2);
```

Will trigger an error.
You have to think of this as if just like in C++,
you created a variable that holds a pointer only,
but you didn't create space for the Fraction object itself.
By calling ```new```.

The reason why you hear people saying Java doesn't have pointers,
is because of semantics.
The term "pointer" is strongly associated with C/C++ concepts,
which are variables that explicitly store memory addresses, 
and which can be modified arithmetically to point to any arbitrary address.
But in Java, pointers exist as an **implementation detail for references**,

In other words, Java ***do*** have pointers, 
but they can't do pointer arithmetics like C/C++ can.

If you want to read more, check on [this wiki page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pointer_%28computer_programming%29#Making_pointers_safer)
to understand a bit more about this.


### Functions, passing by reference and passing by value

The side effect of having no pointer locations is that you cannot pass parameters into a function by
reference in Java.
C++ supports passing parameters both by value and reference, so you can have multiple outputs in a function.

Java does not support this, so if you wanted to return multiple values, an array is often used.

## All Objects you create in Java will be created on the Heap

If you want to create an object,
you will have to create it using the new operator.
That will,
like in C++,
create the object that you want on the heap
where you can then store information in it and call its values.
So the easiest thing would be to just get in the habit of always initializing all of your variables.

```java
Fraction f1 = new Fraction(1, 1); //Remember to call new!
f1.setDenominator(2); //now this will make the fraction ½
```

## Java will take care of deleting objects for you

Since it's on the heap,
you might start feeling weird about having to free your memory
or calling delete on objects you don't need anymore.
Well,
java does that for you now.
And yes to the "l33t h4x0rs" this may be more inefficient and causes java to be slower,
but the seconds you lose in running the program
will outweigh the hours you spend trying to figure out freed memory exceptions.

## Output/Input stuff has changed

I'm not gonna lie,
```cout```,
```cin``` was pretty easy to use.
Java has recognized though that there are some potential dangers in getting input
that isn't in the right type for example,
so they have made getting input a little bit more difficult.
Printing out to a console has been replaced by doing something like this.

```cpp
cout << "Hello, my " << age << "year-old friend!" << endl; //C++
cout << "Hello, my " << age << "year-old friend!\n"; //C++
```

```java
System.out.println("Hello, my " + age + "year-old friend!"); //Java
System.out.print("Hello, my " + age + "year-old friend!\n"); //Java
```

Notice that Java doesn't have the ```endl``` at the end of the statement.
It has been replaced with the ```println``` statement,
if you don't want to go to the next line,
call ```print``` instead of ```println```.
Both ```print``` and ```println``` can also have ```\n``` to make a new line
which C++ also supports when printing.

```\t``` is also something that is in both C++ and Java that hasn't changed
and when printing you can use it to have a horizontal tab
which is the equivalent of eight spaces in what you are printing.
You can also have multiple ```\n``` and ```\t``` in what you are printing in both C++ and Java
by doing something like this.

```cpp
cout << "Hello,\nmy " << age << "year-old\nfriend!\n"; //C++
cout << "Hello,\tmy\t" << age << "\tyear-old\tfriend!"; //C++
```

```java
System.out.print("Hello,\nmy " + age + "year-old\nfriend!\n"); //Java
System.out.print("Hello,\tmy\t" + age + "\tyear-old\tfriend!");//Java
```

## Const/Final variables

A **constant** is a variable that cannot change its value during the program execution.
Java and C++ have different keywords that are used when referring to a constant variable.
Java uses ```final``` while C++ uses ```const```.
Note though that the two keywords do not share all of the same meanings.
To learn more about the difference,
[please see here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/4971286/javas-final-vs-cs-const#:~:text=Java%20final%20is%20equivalent%20to,i.e.&text=Aside%20from%20having%20certain%20and,to%20be%20initialized%20on%20declaration!).

## Java has programmed many things for you

In addition to things like ArrayLists,
which is an infinitely expandable array that will shift elements around for you,
Java has implemented many useful classes that you can leverage immediately,
without having to download any libraries.
All you will need to do is import the library or collection of classes that you will need,
similar to the ```#include``` in C++.
Except here there are many more libraries and useful classes at your disposal.
Ever wanted to have a class that stores a Date correctly? Done.
Want to make an HTTP request? Done.
Want to sort an array? Done.
To see,
just go to this link.

<https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/index.html>

Those are all java files that have been implemented,
are stable and get leveraged by folks who work in Java so that they don't reinvent the wheel.

## There is much to learn still

I can't tell you all the nooks and crannies or differences.
I just wanted to highlight some major ones.
You will undoubtedly have to learn a new language and IDE to work along that language
when you go off to the real world,
and you won't have much help,
so take advantage of the jump start I gave you
and start exploring and learning a new language without having complete direction from me.
One good place to start is just to google "Java for C++ programmers",
and see if anything interesting comes up.
I'll leave you with one last thing to worry about here.

Now with your newfound knowledge of Java,
what will this print out?

```java
Fraction f1 = new Fraction(5, 2);
Fraction f2 = new Fraction(2, 5);
Fraction f3;

System.out.println("f1:" + f1 + ", f2:" + f2 + ", f3:" + f3);

f3 = f1 = f2;
f1.setDenominator(10);

System.out.println("f1:" + f1 + ", f2:" + f2 + ", f3:" + f3);
```
